Add wopi documentation (#340)
owncloud/docs-ocis: modules/ROOT/pages/conf-examples/office-integration.adoc

= Integrating Office Applications
:toc: right
:wopi_subdir: /ocis_wopi
:traefik_url: https://traefik.io/traefik/
:wopiserver_url: https://hub.docker.com/r/cs3org/wopiserver/tags?page=1&ordering=last_updated

:description: If you install the WOPI (Web Application Open Platform Interface) server extension, you can integrate major office applications like Collabora and ONLYOFFICE in Infinite Scale.

// harvested from https://owncloud.dev/ocis/deployment/ocis_wopi/

== Introduction

{description}

For this purpose, ownCloud offers Docker containers with sample configurations available on {composer-url}{compose_tab_1}{composer-final-path}{wopi_subdir}[GitHub,window=_blank].

For details on how WOPI integrates with Infinite Scale see: xref:deployment/wopi/wopi.adoc[Office Applications using WOPI].

The docker stack consists of several containers:

* One of them is {traefik_url}[Traefik], a modern HTTP reverse proxy and load balancer which is terminating SSL and forwards the requests to Infinite Scale in the internal Docker network.
* Then there is Infinite Scale configured with a custom mimetype,
* the WOPI server,

> * and Collabora respectively OnlyOffice containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* and Collabora and OnlyOffice containers.
```

> Note that it is not mandatory to use and configure both example Office Application stacks. In case, omit the one not used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that it is not mandatory to use and configure both example Office Application stacks. Configure only the application stacks that you need.
```

> Note that it is not mandatory to use and configure both example Office Application stacks. Configure only the application stacks that you need.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that it is not mandatory to use and configure both example office application stacks. Configure only the application stacks that you need.
```

== Requirements

You need a Linux server with docker and docker-compose installed.

Then you need to set up the following domains pointing to your server:

> * ocis.* for serving infinite Scale

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* ocis.* for serving Infinite Scale
```

[source,plaintext]
----
127.0.0.1 ocis.owncloud.test
127.0.0.1 traefik.owncloud.test
127.0.0.1 collabora.owncloud.test
127.0.0.1 onlyoffice.owncloud.test
127.0.0.1 wopiserver.owncloud.test
----

For the clients, make sure that the addresses can be resolved to the server(s) running this setup.

== Installation

Installing the Docker stacks only requires a few steps. Take care to use the relevant version. Select a base folder of choice for the target location. Note that the examples use the latest stable version: {compose_tab_2}.

. Get the deployment example:
+
--
Follow the xref:deployment/wopi/wopi.html#wopi-coniguration-examples[WOPI Coniguration Examples,window=_blank] to download the example files.

After all resources have been downloaded, change into the directory:

[source,bash]
----
cd ocis_wopi
----
--

== Configuration

The configuration uses a docker-compose file with an environment variable file for ease of handling. This docker-compose file defines which additional containers are needed and how the containers are configured.

[start=2]

> . As first task, the xref:conf-examples/ext-files/list_file_1.adoc[environment definition file,window=_blank] file needs to be adapted. This file defines many basic settings in one location. Open it in a text editor and adjust it according to your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. firstly, the xref:conf-examples/ext-files/list_file_1.adoc[environment definition file,window=_blank] needs to be adapted. This file defines many basic settings in one location. Open it in a text editor and adjust it according to your needs.
```

> . firstly, the xref:conf-examples/ext-files/list_file_1.adoc[environment definition file,window=_blank] needs to be adapted. This file defines many basic settings in one location. Open it in a text editor and adjust it according to your needs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Firstly, the xref:conf-examples/ext-files/list_file_1.adoc[environment definition file,window=_blank] needs to be adapted. This file defines many basic settings in one location. Open it in a text editor and adjust it according to your needs.
```

+
--
For some hints on what to take into consideration, check the notes listed here:

* If you are installing Infinite Scale on a server and Traefik will obtain valid certificates for you, remove `INSECURE=true` or set it to `false`.

* If you want to use the Traefik dashboard, set `TRAEFIK_DASHBOARD` to `true` (default is `false` and therefore not active). If you activate it, you must set a domain for the Traefik dashboard in `TRAEFIK_DOMAIN=`, for example `TRAEFIK_DOMAIN=traefik.owncloud.test`.

* The Traefik dashboard is secured by Basic Auth. Default credentials are the user `admin` with the password `admin`. To set your own credentials, generate a htpasswd (e.g. by using an https://htpasswdgenerator.de/[online tool] or a CLI tool).

* Traefik will issue certificates with LetsEncrypt. Therefore you must set an email address in `TRAEFIK_ACME_MAIL=`.

> 

Reviewer 3: Please remove the part about the Traefik Dashboard. Not applicable for this documentation.

Author: We are not the master/creator of the compose file which is referenced by this text. The compose file was created by Willy. We take what he provides. This is now "locked" in the v2.0.0. branch. If a change is required, one with the right knowledge can do it in the master branch of the ocis repo. When the next release like v2.1 is published, we can then change the description accordingly. You can see the whole picture more easily when looking into staging where you can see a rendered build...

* By default Infinite Scale will be started with the latest version. If you want to run a specific version of Infinite Scale, set the version to `OCIS_DOCKER_TAG=`. Available versions can be found on https://hub.docker.com/r/owncloud/ocis/tags?page=1&ordering=last_updated[Docker Hub].

* Set your domain for the Infinite Scale web frontend in `OCIS_DOMAIN=`, for example `OCIS_DOMAIN=ocis.owncloud.test`.

* Set the initial admin user password in `ADMIN_PASSWORD=`. It defaults to `admin`.

> * By default, the CS3Org WOPI server will be started with version `v9.3.0`. If you want to start a different or more recent version, you can set the `WOPISERVER_DOCKER_TAG=`. Available versions can be found on {wopiserver_url}[Docker Hub].

Reviewer 4: I would change that. The referenced example files will get regular updates. I would prefer "the CS3Org WOPI server will be started with the version from the examples, which might not be the latest stable released version.

Author: Fixed by @EParzefall

> * By default, the CS3Org WOPI server will be started with version `v9.3.0`. If you want to start a different or more recent version, you can set the `WOPISERVER_DOCKER_TAG=`. Available versions can be found on {wopiserver_url}[Docker Hub].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* By default, the CS3Org WOPI server will be started with the version from the examples, which might not be the latest stable released version. If you want to start a different or more recent version, you can set the `WOPISERVER_DOCKER_TAG=`. Available versions can be found on {wopiserver_url}[Docker Hub].
```

* Set your domain for the CS3Org WOPI server in `WOPISERVER_DOMAIN=`, where all office suites can download the files via the WOPI protocol.

> * You also must override the default WOPI JWT secret for a secure setup. Do this done by setting `WOPI_JWT_SECRET` to a long and random string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You also must override the default WOPI JWT secret for a secure setup. Do this by setting `WOPI_JWT_SECRET` to a long and random string.
```

> * For OnlyOffice, wopi is not enabled by default. It has to be set explicitly via `WOPI_ENABLED: "true"`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* For OnlyOffice, WOPI is not enabled by default. It has to be set explicitly via `WOPI_ENABLED: "true"`.
```

> * For OnlyOffice, wopi is not enabled by default. It has to be set explicit via `WOPI_ENABLED: "true"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For OnlyOffice, wopi is not enabled by default. It has to be set explicitly via `WOPI_ENABLED: "true"`.
```

* To set up Collabora, you need to specify the domain of Collabora in `COLLABORA_DOMAIN=`.

* If you want to use the Collabora admin panel, you need to set the username and password for the administrator in `COLLABORA_ADMIN_USER=` and `COLLABORA_ADMIN_PASSWORD=`.

* Next, enter the OnlyOffice domain in `ONLYOFFICE_DOMAIN=`.
--

> . Though no changes are needed, adapt the xref:conf-examples/ext-files/list_file_2.adoc[UI representation,window=_blank] of the office applications for the use in ownCloud Web if required. As an example, the settings do currently not have any icons defined that show up in the webUI with the names of available office applications to open. This can be changed manually.

Reviewer 4: is the dot a typo?

Reviewer 4: what is `list_file_2.adoc`?

Author: The dot ends the sentence and is part of the list-item.
The xref `list_file_x.adoc` is a clickable link where its content is opened in another window when clicked. This way we only have a link and not the whole content in the same page which would make it very hard to read.

Author: I have chnaged the file names 😄

> . Though no changes are needed, adapt the xref:conf-examples/ext-files/list_file_2.adoc[UI representation,window=_blank] of the office applications for the use in ownCloud Web if required. As an example, the settings do currently not have any icons defined that show up in the webUI with the names of available office applications to open. This can be changed manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Though no changes are needed, adapt the xref:conf-examples/ext-files/list_file_2.adoc[UI representation,window=_blank] of the office applications for use in ownCloud Web if required. As an example, the settings currently do not have any icons defined that show up in the webUI with the names of available office applications to open. This can be changed manually.
```

== Start the Docker Stack

[start=4]
. When the changed files have been saved, start the Docker stack with:
+
[source,bash]
----
docker-compose up -d
----

== Access Infinite Scale

[start=5]

> . Enter your Infinite Scale domain in a browser and you're ready to log in and open office documents in the web client. It might take a few minutes for all services to become operational because the container need to download first. Just keep reloading the pages from time to time.

Reviewer 4: maybe a hint would be good to run `docker-compose ps`

Author: Added with the next push

Author: done

> . Enter your Infinite Scale domain in a browser and you're ready to log in and open office documents in the web client. It might take a few minutes for all services to become operational because the container need to download first. Just keep reloading the pages from time to time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Enter your Infinite Scale domain in a browser and you're ready to log in and open office documents in the web client. It might take a few minutes for all services to become operational because the containers need to download first. Just keep reloading the pages from time to time.
```
